README.md, before:

# spring-on-the-web
### How to setup a SpringMVC-based web app with SpringBoot?

### Env
Windows 10

#### 1. Preparing for Spring Boot  

By default, Spring Boot 1.3.2.RELEASE requires Java 7 and Spring Framework 4.1.5 or above. Spring Boot can be used with "classic" Java development tools or installed as a command line tool. Regardless, we will need Java SDK v1.6 or higher:    

>$ java -version  
>java version "1.8.0_102"
>Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_102-b14)
>Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.102-b14, mixed mode)  

We also need Maven:  
>$ mvn -v  
>Apache Maven 3.3.9 (bb52d8502b132ec0a5a3f4c09453c07478323dc5; 2015-11-10T23:41:47+07:00)
>Maven home: D:\projects\on-boarding\tools\apache-maven-3.3.9
>Java version: 1.8.0_102, vendor: Oracle Corporation
>Java home: D:\projects\on-boarding\tools\jdk1.8.0_102\jre
>Default locale: en_US, platform encoding: Cp1252
>OS name: "windows 10", version: "10.0", arch: "amd64", family: "dos"  

#### 2. POM and dependencies  
First we want to set up a basic build script.

Though we can use any build system we like when building apps with Spring, in this section we'll use Maven following [Developing your first Spring Boot application](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/getting-started-first-application.html).  

Or run this command to create web app by maven directly:  

```
mvn archetype:generate 
  -DgroupId=[your project's group id]
  -DartifactId=[your project's artifact id]
  -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-webapp
```

We need to start by creating a Maven **pom.xml** file. The **pom.xml** is the recipe that will be used to build our project.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>

    <groupId>com.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>myproject</artifactId>
    <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>

    <parent>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
        <version>1.3.2.RELEASE</version>
    </parent>

    <!-- Additional lines to be added here... -->

</project>
```  
This should give us a working build, we can test it out by running **mvn package**:
```xml
$ mvn package

$ tree
.
|-- pom.xml
|-- target
    |-- maven-archiver
    |   |-- pom.properties
    |-- myproject-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```  
Spring Boot provides a number of "Starter POMs" that make easy to add jars to our classpath. Our sample application has already used **spring-boot-starter-parent** in the parent section of the POM. The **spring-boot-starter-parent** is a special starter that provides useful Maven defaults. It also provides a **dependency-management** section so that we can omit version tags for dependencies.  

Let's look at what dependency we currently have:  
``` 
$ mvn dependency:tree
...
[INFO] com.example:myproject:jar:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
..
``` 
Note that **spring-boot-starter-parent** provides NO dependencies by itself.  

Other "Starter POMs" simply provide dependencies that we are likely to need when developing a specific type of application. Since we are developing a web application, we will add a **spring-boot-starter-web** dependency. Here is our updated **pom.xml**:  

``` 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>

    <groupId>com.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>myproject</artifactId>
    <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>

    <parent>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
        <version>1.3.2.RELEASE</version>
    </parent>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>

</project>
``` 
Now let's run **mvn dependency:tree** again:  
``` 
$ mvn dependency:tree
...
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- maven-dependency-plugin:2.10:tree (default-cli) @ myproject ---
[INFO] com.example:myproject:jar:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO] \- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web:jar:1.3.2.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    +- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-tomcat:jar:1.3.2.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-core:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-el:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-logging-juli:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    |  \- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-websocket:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    +- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-validation:jar:1.3.2.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  \- org.hibernate:hibernate-validator:jar:5.2.2.Final:compile
[INFO]    |     +- javax.validation:validation-api:jar:1.1.0.Final:compile
[INFO]    |     +- org.jboss.logging:jboss-logging:jar:3.3.0.Final:compile
[INFO]    |     \- com.fasterxml:classmate:jar:1.1.0:compile
[INFO]    +- com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-databind:jar:2.6.5:compile
[INFO]    |  +- com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-annotations:jar:2.6.5:compile
[INFO]    |  \- com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-core:jar:2.6.5:compile
[INFO]    +- org.springframework:spring-web:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.springframework:spring-aop:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  |  \- aopalliance:aopalliance:jar:1.0:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.springframework:spring-beans:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  \- org.springframework:spring-context:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    \- org.springframework:spring-webmvc:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]       \- org.springframework:spring-expression:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
``` 
We can see that there are now a number of additional dependencies, including the Tomcat web server and Spring Boot itself.  

Run the following commands to install your dependencies
```
mvn install
```

Update your Eclipse classpath if you intend to develope by Eclipse IDE
```
mvn eclipse:eclipse
```

#### 3. Code  
To finish our application we need to create a single Java file.

Maven will compile sources from **src/main/java** by default so we need to create that folder structure, then add a file named **src/main/java/Example.java**:


Can't add Anotation as: RestController, EnableAutoConfiguration, RequestMapping

```java  
import org.springframework.boot.*;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.*;
import org.springframework.stereotype.*;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;

@RestController
@EnableAutoConfiguration
public class Example {

    @RequestMapping("/")
    String home() {
        return "Hello World!";
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        SpringApplication.run(Example.class, args);
    }
}
``` 
Here is our new file structure:  

``` 
|-- pom.xml
|-- src
|   |-- main
|       |-- java
|           |--Example.java
|-- target
    |-- maven-archiver
    |   |-- pom.properties
    |-- myproject-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
``` 
The **@RestController** and **@RequestMapping** annotations are Spring MVC annotations, and they are not specific to Spring Boot.

The first annotation on our **Example** class is **@RestController**.

This is known as a **stereotype** annotation. It provides hints for people reading the code, and for Spring, that the class plays a specific role. In this case, our class is a web **@Controller** so Spring will consider it when handling incoming web requests.

The **@RequestMapping** annotation provides "routing" information.
* It is telling Spring that any HTTP request with the path **"/"** should be mapped to the home method. The **@RestController** annotation tells Spring to render the resulting string directly back to the caller.

The second class-level annotation is **@EnableAutoConfiguration**.
* This annotation tells Spring Boot to "guess" how we will want to configure Spring, based on the jar dependencies that we have added.

Since **spring-boot-starter-web** added Tomcat and Spring MVC, the **auto-configuration** will assume that we are developing a web application and setup Spring accordingly.

The final part of our application is **the main method**.
* This is just a standard method that follows the Java convention for an application entry point. Our main method delegates to Spring Boot's SpringApplication class by calling run.

SpringApplication will bootstrap our application, starting Spring which will in turn start the auto-configured Tomcat web server.

We need to pass **Example.class** as an argument to the run method to tell **SpringApplication** which is the primary Spring component. The args array is also passed through to expose any command-line arguments.

#### 4. Run  
At this point our application should work.

Since we have used the **spring-boot-starter-parent** POM we have a useful run goal that we can use to start the application. From the root project directory to start the application using **mvn spring-boot:run**:  
``` 
$ mvn spring-boot:run

[INFO] --- spring-boot-maven-plugin:1.3.2.RELEASE:run (default-cli) @ myproject ---

  .   ____          _            __ _ _
 /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
 \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
  '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
 =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
 :: Spring Boot ::        (v1.3.2.RELEASE)
 ``` 
Access your browser at [localhost:8080](localhost:8080), we can see the result: **Hello World!**  

:banana::monkey:

Commit message:

Add [5. Add JSP + Resourcese + Static files]

README.md, after:

# spring-on-the-web
### How to setup a SpringMVC-based web app with SpringBoot?

### Env
Windows 10

#### 1. Preparing for Spring Boot  

By default, Spring Boot 1.3.2.RELEASE requires Java 7 and Spring Framework 4.1.5 or above. Spring Boot can be used with "classic" Java development tools or installed as a command line tool. Regardless, we will need Java SDK v1.6 or higher:    

>$ java -version  
>java version "1.8.0_102"
>Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_102-b14)
>Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.102-b14, mixed mode)  

We also need Maven:  
>$ mvn -v  
>Apache Maven 3.3.9 (bb52d8502b132ec0a5a3f4c09453c07478323dc5; 2015-11-10T23:41:47+07:00)
>Maven home: D:\projects\on-boarding\tools\apache-maven-3.3.9
>Java version: 1.8.0_102, vendor: Oracle Corporation
>Java home: D:\projects\on-boarding\tools\jdk1.8.0_102\jre
>Default locale: en_US, platform encoding: Cp1252
>OS name: "windows 10", version: "10.0", arch: "amd64", family: "dos"  

#### 2. POM and dependencies  
First we want to set up a basic build script.

Though we can use any build system we like when building apps with Spring, in this section we'll use Maven following [Developing your first Spring Boot application](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/getting-started-first-application.html).  

Or run this command to create web app by maven directly:  

```
mvn archetype:generate 
  -DgroupId=[your project's group id]
  -DartifactId=[your project's artifact id]
  -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-webapp
```

We need to start by creating a Maven **pom.xml** file. The **pom.xml** is the recipe that will be used to build our project.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>

    <groupId>com.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>myproject</artifactId>
    <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>

    <parent>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
        <version>1.3.2.RELEASE</version>
    </parent>

    <!-- Additional lines to be added here... -->

</project>
```  
This should give us a working build, we can test it out by running **mvn package**:
```xml
$ mvn package

$ tree
.
|-- pom.xml
|-- target
    |-- maven-archiver
    |   |-- pom.properties
    |-- myproject-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```  
Spring Boot provides a number of "Starter POMs" that make easy to add jars to our classpath. Our sample application has already used **spring-boot-starter-parent** in the parent section of the POM. The **spring-boot-starter-parent** is a special starter that provides useful Maven defaults. It also provides a **dependency-management** section so that we can omit version tags for dependencies.  

Let's look at what dependency we currently have:  
``` 
$ mvn dependency:tree
...
[INFO] com.example:myproject:jar:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
..
``` 
Note that **spring-boot-starter-parent** provides NO dependencies by itself.  

Other "Starter POMs" simply provide dependencies that we are likely to need when developing a specific type of application. Since we are developing a web application, we will add a **spring-boot-starter-web** dependency. Here is our updated **pom.xml**:  

``` 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>

    <groupId>com.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>myproject</artifactId>
    <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>

    <parent>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
        <version>1.3.2.RELEASE</version>
    </parent>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>

</project>
``` 
Now let's run **mvn dependency:tree** again:  
``` 
$ mvn dependency:tree
...
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- maven-dependency-plugin:2.10:tree (default-cli) @ myproject ---
[INFO] com.example:myproject:jar:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO] \- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web:jar:1.3.2.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    +- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-tomcat:jar:1.3.2.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-core:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-el:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-logging-juli:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    |  \- org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-websocket:jar:8.0.30:compile
[INFO]    +- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-validation:jar:1.3.2.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  \- org.hibernate:hibernate-validator:jar:5.2.2.Final:compile
[INFO]    |     +- javax.validation:validation-api:jar:1.1.0.Final:compile
[INFO]    |     +- org.jboss.logging:jboss-logging:jar:3.3.0.Final:compile
[INFO]    |     \- com.fasterxml:classmate:jar:1.1.0:compile
[INFO]    +- com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-databind:jar:2.6.5:compile
[INFO]    |  +- com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-annotations:jar:2.6.5:compile
[INFO]    |  \- com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-core:jar:2.6.5:compile
[INFO]    +- org.springframework:spring-web:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.springframework:spring-aop:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  |  \- aopalliance:aopalliance:jar:1.0:compile
[INFO]    |  +- org.springframework:spring-beans:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    |  \- org.springframework:spring-context:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]    \- org.springframework:spring-webmvc:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
[INFO]       \- org.springframework:spring-expression:jar:4.2.4.RELEASE:compile
``` 
We can see that there are now a number of additional dependencies, including the Tomcat web server and Spring Boot itself.  

Run the following commands to install your dependencies
```
mvn install
```

Update your Eclipse classpath if you intend to develope by Eclipse IDE
```
mvn eclipse:eclipse
```

#### 3. Code  
To finish our application we need to create a single Java file.

Maven will compile sources from **src/main/java** by default so we need to create that folder structure, then add a file named **src/main/java/Example.java**:


Can't add Anotation as: RestController, EnableAutoConfiguration, RequestMapping

```java  
import org.springframework.boot.*;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.*;
import org.springframework.stereotype.*;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;

@RestController
@EnableAutoConfiguration
public class Example {

    @RequestMapping("/")
    String home() {
        return "Hello World!";
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        SpringApplication.run(Example.class, args);
    }
}
``` 
Here is our new file structure:  

``` 
|-- pom.xml
|-- src
|   |-- main
|       |-- java
|           |--Example.java
|-- target
    |-- maven-archiver
    |   |-- pom.properties
    |-- myproject-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
``` 
The **@RestController** and **@RequestMapping** annotations are Spring MVC annotations, and they are not specific to Spring Boot.

The first annotation on our **Example** class is **@RestController**.

This is known as a **stereotype** annotation. It provides hints for people reading the code, and for Spring, that the class plays a specific role. In this case, our class is a web **@Controller** so Spring will consider it when handling incoming web requests.

The **@RequestMapping** annotation provides "routing" information.
* It is telling Spring that any HTTP request with the path **"/"** should be mapped to the home method. The **@RestController** annotation tells Spring to render the resulting string directly back to the caller.

The second class-level annotation is **@EnableAutoConfiguration**.
* This annotation tells Spring Boot to "guess" how we will want to configure Spring, based on the jar dependencies that we have added.

Since **spring-boot-starter-web** added Tomcat and Spring MVC, the **auto-configuration** will assume that we are developing a web application and setup Spring accordingly.

The final part of our application is **the main method**.
* This is just a standard method that follows the Java convention for an application entry point. Our main method delegates to Spring Boot's SpringApplication class by calling run.

SpringApplication will bootstrap our application, starting Spring which will in turn start the auto-configured Tomcat web server.

We need to pass **Example.class** as an argument to the run method to tell **SpringApplication** which is the primary Spring component. The args array is also passed through to expose any command-line arguments.

#### 4. Run  
At this point our application should work.

Since we have used the **spring-boot-starter-parent** POM we have a useful run goal that we can use to start the application. From the root project directory to start the application using **mvn spring-boot:run**:  
``` 
$ mvn spring-boot:run

[INFO] --- spring-boot-maven-plugin:1.3.2.RELEASE:run (default-cli) @ myproject ---

  .   ____          _            __ _ _
 /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
 \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
  '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
 =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
 :: Spring Boot ::        (v1.3.2.RELEASE)
 ``` 
Access your browser at [localhost:8080](localhost:8080), we can see the result: **Hello World!**  

:banana::monkey:  

### 5. Add JSP + Resourcese + Static files  
JSP files will be put under ```src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/views/*```  
Static resources like CSS or JS will be put under ```/src/main/resources/static/```  
And properties files, put them under ```/src/main/resources/```  
Because of automatic resource mapping mechanism of Spring Boot, we don' need to declare the resource mapping manually (http://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#boot-features-spring-mvc-static-content), just need to put the resources under the corresponding folders, that's all.
